#pde #hagstrom #strichartz 

### What are generalized functions?
We will weaken our notion of a function so as not to enforce point wise existance. We will require that something akin to $\braket{f,\psi}=\int f(x)\psi(x)\;dx$ exists for a suitable choice of test functions. the space of test functions characterizes the space. We will look at the space defined by $\mathcal{D}$, which leads to the theory of distributions. This class of test functions $\mathcal{D}(\Omega)$ consists of all functions $\psi(x)$ defined on $\Omega$ vanishing outside the bounded subset of $\Omega$ that stays away from the boundary of $\Omega$, and such that all partial derivatives of all orders of $\psi$ are continuous. In other words $\psi$ is compactly supported on $\Omega$ and $\psi\in C^{\infty}$. This theory of distributions is an effort to capture solutions with non-classical characteristics such as discontinuities. Distributions make it possible to differentiate functions which do not have derivatives in a classical sense.
### $\mathcal{D'}$
We have defined the class of distributions on $\Omega$, denoted $\mathcal{D}'$, to be all continuous linear functionals on $\mathcal{D}'(\Omega)$. a function f characterizes an element of $D'$.   If the following integral can be defined then arises the following distribution generated by f. $\braket{f,\psi}\in D'(\Omega)$   
**Example:** The function $|x|^{-t}$ for $t<n$ gives rise to the distribution in $D'(\mathbb{R}^n)$. 
$$\braket{f,\psi}=\int_{\mathbb{R^n}}\psi(x)|x|^{-t}dx$$

### Locally integrable
a function $f(x)$ defined on $\Omega$ for which $\int f(x)\psi(x) dx$ is absolutely convergent for every $\psi\in\mathcal{D}(\Omega)$ is called <u>locally integrable</u>. such an $f\in L_{loc}^1(\Omega)$. 
for <u>local integrability</u>  $\int_B|f(x)|\;dx<\infty$ over all sets $B\subseteq\Omega$ that are bounded and stay away from the boundary of $\Omega$. 
Recall: an integrable function on $\Omega$ such as $f\in L^1(\Omega)$ is on for which $\int_{\Omega} |f(x)|dx$  is finite.  Locally integrable functions are a subset of the distributions. $L_{loc}^1(\Omega)\subseteq D'(\Omega)$  
***Distributions are a set of objects larger than the set of functions***

NOTE: the smoother you allow the test functions to be the "rougher" you can allow the generalized functions f to be. 

### Linear Operators on Distributions
the sequence of distributions $f_1,f_2,...\rightarrow f$ if the sequence $\braket{f_n,\psi}\rightarrow\braket{f,\psi}$. 
Given any distribution $f\in\mathcal{D}'(\Omega)$, there exists a sequence $\{\psi_n\}$ of test functions such that $\psi_n\rightarrow f$ as distributions. 
**This is how the delta function is defined. As a limit of a sequence of compactly supported test functions around zero converging to an object that characterizes a distribution.**
$Tf = \lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}T\psi_n$ if $\{\psi_n\}$ is a sequence of test functions that $f=\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\psi_n$. This property is a bi-product of continuity. 
Example:
$$T\psi(x)=\psi(x+y),\;y\in\mathbb{R}^n, \text{ and }\psi\in\mathcal{D}(\mathbb{R}^n)$$ 
Suppose $f\in\mathcal{D(\mathbb{R}^n)}$. **How do we define** $Tf$? 
$\braket{Tf,\psi}$ and $f=\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\psi_n\;\;\forall\psi_n\in\mathcal{D(\mathbb{R}^n)}$    
$$f=\braket{f,\psi}=\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\int \psi_n(x)\psi(x)\;dx$$
it follows that
$$Tf=\braket{Tf,\psi}=\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\int T\psi_n(x)\psi(x)\;dx=\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\int \psi_n(x+y)\psi(x)\;dx$$
Make a change of variables $x\mapsto x-y$. the above becomes:
$$\lim\limits_{n\rightarrow\infty}\int \psi_n(x)\psi(x-y)\;dx=\braket{f,\psi(x-y)}$$ 
Therefore the translation operator does the following
$$\braket{Tf,\psi}=\braket{f,\psi(x-y)}$$ Paraphrased: to translate the distribution through y, translate the test function through -y
### Adjoint Identities
In Hilbert space theory the adjoint identity involves complex conjugates, while in distribution theory we do not take complex conjugates even when we deal with complex-valued functions.

$\braket{T\psi,\phi}=\braket{\psi,S\phi}$ 

#### Derivatives of Distributions
By the same argument for the translation operator along with the limit definition of a derivate we get the following property. 
$$\braket{\frac{d}{dx}f,\psi}=-\braket{f,\frac{d}{dx}\psi}$$

#### Multiplication operator
$\braket{m\cdot f,\varphi}=\braket{f,m\cdot\varphi}$
NOTE: THE PRODUCT OF TWO ARBITRARY DISTRIBUTIONS IS UNDEFINED

### Putting it together
$$
\begin{aligned}
m\in C^\infty&\;\;\text{we consider}\;m\cdot f\;\text{where},\;f=\delta\\
\braket{m\cdot\delta',\varphi}&=\braket{\delta',m\cdot\varphi}\\
&=-\braket{\delta,\frac{d}{dx}(m\varphi)}\\
&=-\braket{\delta,m'\varphi}-\braket{\delta,m\varphi'}\\
&=-m'(0)\varphi(0)-m(0)\varphi'(0)\\
&=\braket{-m'(0)\delta+m(0)\delta',\varphi}\\
&\therefore\;\; m\cdot\delta' = m(0)\delta'-m'(0)\delta\\
\end{aligned}
$$
This above is a is a derivative of $\delta$. Which in a classical sense cannot be done. We have found a means of computing $\delta'$ via distributions.

### section 2.4
Here we explore the question. If $(\partial/\partial x_k)f$ exists in a classical sense does the distributional sense agree? We get nice consistency of the derivatives on distributions.

#TODO  - 2.5 Distributional solutions of differential equations

> [!note] Process for defining operators on $\mathcal{S}'(\mathbb{R}^n)$ or $\mathcal{D}'(\mathbb{R}^n)$
> Note that the general process for exploring operators on generalized functions is to explore the adjoint operator. 
Suppose we wish to export the effect of the operator $T$ on the space of generalized functions. We will calculate the adjoint operator which then acts on the space of test functions. ie
> $$
\braket{Tf,\varphi} = \braket{f,S\varphi}
$$
